# Javac plugin for generating JSpecify JDK astubx file

This module and others contain logic to generate an astubx file from the
[annotated JSpecify JDK](https://github.com/jspecify/jdk).  The generation works
in two stages:

1. This module provides a javac plugin that gets injected into the build of the
JSpecify JDK.  It generates `.json` files capturing the nullability annotations
in the JDK.
2. We have a separate astubx generator (main entrypoint:
`com.uber.nullaway.jdkannotations.AstubxGeneratorCLI`) that turns the `.json`
files into an `.astubx` file.  

Here are the current steps to (re-)generate the file (admittedly janky, we will
work to improve them).

1. Build this module and the `astubx-generator-cli` module:
`./gradlew :jdk-javac-plugin:build :jdk-annotations:astubx-generator-cli:build`
2. Clone [this fork](https://github.com/msridhar/jdk) of the JSpecify JDK, and
check out the `test` branch.
3. In the jdk repo, edit these lines of `make/common/JavaCompilation.gmk`:
```
    $1_API_DIGEST_FLAGS += -Xplugin:"NullnessAnnotationSerializer /tmp"
    $1_AUGMENTED_CLASSPATH += /Users/msridhar/git-repos/NullAway/jdk-javac-plugin/build/libs/jdk-javac-plugin-all.jar
```
On the first line, you can change `/tmp` to whatever directory should be used to
store the `.json` files generated by the javac plugin.  On the second line,
change the absolute path to point to the `jdk-javac-plugin-all.jar` file under
your NullAway repo.
4. In the jdk repo, run: `make clean && make jdk`.  (You may need to run
`configure` first.)  This should exit successfully and generate the json files.
5. Run the `AstubxGeneratorCLI` main method (e.g., you can run it from within
IntelliJ).  It takes two arguments.  The first is the directory containing the
json files, and the second is where the output astubx file should be placed.
The output file will be named `output.astubx`.
6. Copy the `output.astubx` file from the previous step to
`nullaway/src/main/resources/jspecify-jdk.astubx` under the NullAway repo.